doc/adding-a-new-board.md, before:

# Adding a new board

## Charger parameters

- `CHARGER_CHARGE_CURRENT`: Currently the same for all boards (1536).
- `CHARGER_CHARGE_VOLTAGE`: On the battery, look for 充电限制电压 (charge limit
  voltage). Convert this from volts to millivolts.
- `CHARGER_INPUT_CURRENT`: On the charger, look for DC output. Convert the
  current from amps to milliamps.

#### Example

The gaze15 battery has

```
充电限制电压: 16.8Vdc
```

and its charger has

```
DC OUTPUT (输出/輸出): 19.5V⎓9.23A 180W
```

This gives

```
CFLAGS+=\
	-DCHARGER_CHARGE_CURRENT=1536 \
	-DCHARGER_CHARGE_VOLTAGE=16800 \
	-DCHARGER_INPUT_CURRENT=9230
```

## GPIOs

Use ecsim on the proprietary firmware to generate the configuration. Modify
`src/main.rs` if the EC needs to be changed from 5570 to 8587. Refer to
`gpio.sh`, which can automate the process.

Use the EC page in the schematics to label everything.

Not everything will be generated correctly, so check them manually when
labeling. Examples include the M block not being included in the generated
output, and `CCD_EN` being configured as `GPIO_IN` instead of `GPIO_OUT`.

## Keyboard backlight

Many models have backlit or RGB keyboards. The EC page in the board schematics
should be sufficient to determine the method used to control the backlight.

### DAC

One of the DACs is be used for controlling the backlight level.

Examples:

- galp4
- lemp9

These models use `KBLIGHT_ADJ` to control the backlight level.

### PWM

One PWM line is used for controlling brightness, and three others are used for
setting the red, green, and blue colors.

Examples:

- addw2
- gaze15
- oryp6

These models use `EC_PWM_LEDKB_{R,G,B}` to control the color of the keys.

### I2C

I2C is used to communicate with the MCU that controls the keyboard backlight
and color.

Examples:

- darp6
- oryp5

Commit message:

Fix OZ26786 AdapterCurrent() values
The value passed to AdapterCurrent() must be adjusted based on the sense
resistor used.

- 0.020 ohm sense resistor: Use actual input current
- 0.010 ohm sense resistor: Divide input current by 2
- 0.005 ohm sense resistor: Divide input current by 4

See section "Setting Adapter Current" in the datasheet.

Ref: OZ26786-DS v1.0
Signed-off-by: Tim Crawford <tcrawford@system76.com>

doc/adding-a-new-board.md, after:

# Adding a new board

## Charger parameters

- `CHARGER_CHARGE_CURRENT`: Currently the same for all boards (3A).
- `CHARGER_CHARGE_VOLTAGE`: On the battery, look for 充电限制电压 (charge limit
  voltage). Convert this from volts to millivolts.
- `CHARGER_INPUT_CURRENT`: On the charger, look for DC output. Convert the
  current from amps to milliamps.

These values need to be adjusted based on the values of the sense resistors
(PRS1, PRS2) and how the charger interprets the value.

#### Example

The gaze15 battery has:

```
充电限制电压: 16.8Vdc
```

Its charger has:

```
DC OUTPUT (输出/輸出): 19.5V⎓9.23A 180W
```

The schematics show it uses a 0.005 ohm sense resistor for both PRS1 and PRS2.
This means that the charge current and input current must be divided by 2 when
configuring the smart charger.

This gives:

```
CFLAGS+=\
	-DCHARGER_CHARGE_CURRENT=0x600 \
	-DCHARGER_CHARGE_VOLTAGE=16800 \
	-DCHARGER_INPUT_CURRENT=0x1200
```

## GPIOs

Use ecsim on the proprietary firmware to generate the configuration. Modify
`src/main.rs` if the EC needs to be changed from 5570 to 8587. Refer to
`gpio.sh`, which can automate the process.

Use the EC page in the schematics to label everything.

Not everything will be generated correctly, so check them manually when
labeling. Examples include the M block not being included in the generated
output, and `CCD_EN` being configured as `GPIO_IN` instead of `GPIO_OUT`.

## Keyboard backlight

Many models have backlit or RGB keyboards. The EC page in the board schematics
should be sufficient to determine the method used to control the backlight.

### DAC

One of the DACs is be used for controlling the backlight level.

Examples:

- galp4
- lemp9

These models use `KBLIGHT_ADJ` to control the backlight level.

### PWM

One PWM line is used for controlling brightness, and three others are used for
setting the red, green, and blue colors.

Examples:

- addw2
- gaze15
- oryp6

These models use `EC_PWM_LEDKB_{R,G,B}` to control the color of the keys.

### I2C

I2C is used to communicate with the MCU that controls the keyboard backlight
and color.

Examples:

- darp6
- oryp5
