docs/debugging.md, before:

# Debugging the EC firmware

Terms used:
- *target*: The laptop system that has the EC to be tested
- *host*: The system that will have all devices connected to it and
    will receive the EC logs

## Debugging with target device

1. Install dependencies
    ```bash
    ./scripts/deps.sh
    ```
1. Start the console
    ```bash
    make BOARD=system76/<model> console_internal
    ```
1. If you're not seeing seeing expected output, check the
  [`LEVEL` cflag][level_cflag]. This is an EC compile time configuration and
  changing will require a build and flash of the EC.

[level_cflag]: https://github.com/system76/ec/blob/01907011bb63/src/board/system76/common/common.mk#L31-L39

## Debugging with external device

### Parallel port

This method replaces the keyboard with a device used for debug logging.
An alternate method of interacting with the target is needed; e.g., an
external USB keyboard or SSH session.

Requirements:
- Arduino Mega 2560 compatible board
- 24 pin FPC breakout board and cables
    - 0.5mm or 1.0mm pitch, depending on target connector
- USB-C cable

For details on configuring the Mega 2560 and breakout board, see
[mega2560](./mega2560.md).

#### Setup

1. Enable parallel port debugging in the EC firmware
    - Uncomment `PARALLEL_DEBUG` in `src/board/system76/common/common.mk`
    - Build and flash the firmware for the target
2. Power off target
3. Remove bottom panel
4. Unplug keyboard cable
    - May require removing keyboard depending on port location
5. Ground target to host
    - Connect USB cable from USB-C port on target to host
6. Connect Mega 2560 to host
    - This will create an ACM device at `/dev/ttyACM*`
7. Connect Mega 2560 to target
8. Start the console
```
make BOARD=system76/<model> console_external
```

EC logs should now print to the console on the host. This can be tested
by removing or inserting the AC adapter to trigger a power event.

To return the Mega 2560 to host mode, reset the device.

If logs are corrupted, try power cycling the Mega or reseating the cable.

### I2C connection

**Failure to follow steps in order, or performing steps on an
unsupported board, may result in damaged board components.**

#### Wiring the target

The I2C connection is made through the battery pins. Find the pins marked
`SMC_BAT` (clock) and `SMD_BAT` (data) in the service manual.

Board       | `SMC_BAT` | `SMD_BAT`
------------|-----------|-----------
addw1       | 4         | 5
addw2       | 4         | 5
darp5       | 4         | 5
darp6       | 4         | 5
galp3       | 4         | 5
galp3-b     | 4         | 5
galp3-c     | 4         | 5
galp4       | 4         | 5
gaze14      | 4         | 3
gaze15      | 4         | 3
lemp9       | 6         | 5
lemp10      | 6         | 5
oryp5       | 4         | 5
oryp6       | 6         | 5
oryp7       | 6         | 5

1. Power off system
2. Unplug AC adapter
3. Remove bottom panel
4. Disconnect battery
5. Attach one wire to `SMC_BAT`
6. Attach one wire to `SMD_BAT`
7. Route wires through the Kensington lock slot
    - Secure wires to board with tape
8. Attach female connector and housing to wires
9. Reconnect battery
10. Replace bottom panel

#### Setup

Requirements:
- Target wired for EC debugging
- Adafruit Trinket M0
- USB-C cable

1. Enable I2C debugging in the EC firmware for the target
    - Uncomment `I2C_DEBUGGER` in `src/board/system76/common/common.mk`
    - Build and flash firmware
2. Connect Trinket M0 to host
    - This will create an ACM device at `/dev/ttyACM*`
3. Connect to ACM device from host
```
sudo tio -b 115200 -m INLCRNL /dev/ttyACM0
```
4. Ground target to host
    - Connect USB cable from USB-C port on target to host
5. Connect target to host
    - Connect `SMC_BAT` wire to `SCL` on Trinket M0
    - Connect `SMD_BAT` wire to `SDA` on Trinket M0

EC logs should now print to the console on the host. This can be tested
by removing or inserting the AC adapter to trigger a power event.

Commit message:

Allow setting log level in config file
Add a new Makefile config for controlling the log level instead of
having to modify the `LEVEL` cflag directly.

Signed-off-by: Tim Crawford <tcrawford@system76.com>

docs/debugging.md, after:

# Debugging the EC firmware

Terms used:
- *target*: The laptop system that has the EC to be tested
- *host*: The system that will have all devices connected to it and
    will receive the EC logs

## Debugging with target device

1. Install dependencies
    ```bash
    ./scripts/deps.sh
    ```
1. Start the console
    ```bash
    make BOARD=system76/<model> console_internal
    ```
If you're not seeing seeing expected output, check the value of
`CONFIG_LOG_LEVEL` in `common.mk`. This is an EC compile time configuration
and changing it will require a build and flash of the EC. Supported log levels
are:

- `none`
- `error`
- `warn`
- `info`
- `debug`
- `trace`

The default value is `debug` if unspecified.

## Debugging with external device

### Parallel port

This method replaces the keyboard with a device used for debug logging.
An alternate method of interacting with the target is needed; e.g., an
external USB keyboard or SSH session.

Requirements:
- Arduino Mega 2560 compatible board
- 24 pin FPC breakout board and cables
    - 0.5mm or 1.0mm pitch, depending on target connector
- USB-C cable

For details on configuring the Mega 2560 and breakout board, see
[mega2560](./mega2560.md).

#### Setup

1. Enable parallel port debugging in the EC firmware
    - Uncomment `PARALLEL_DEBUG` in `src/board/system76/common/common.mk`
    - Build and flash the firmware for the target
2. Power off target
3. Remove bottom panel
4. Unplug keyboard cable
    - May require removing keyboard depending on port location
5. Ground target to host
    - Connect USB cable from USB-C port on target to host
6. Connect Mega 2560 to host
    - This will create an ACM device at `/dev/ttyACM*`
7. Connect Mega 2560 to target
8. Start the console
```
make BOARD=system76/<model> console_external
```

EC logs should now print to the console on the host. This can be tested
by removing or inserting the AC adapter to trigger a power event.

To return the Mega 2560 to host mode, reset the device.

If logs are corrupted, try power cycling the Mega or reseating the cable.

### I2C connection

**Failure to follow steps in order, or performing steps on an
unsupported board, may result in damaged board components.**

#### Wiring the target

The I2C connection is made through the battery pins. Find the pins marked
`SMC_BAT` (clock) and `SMD_BAT` (data) in the service manual.

Board       | `SMC_BAT` | `SMD_BAT`
------------|-----------|-----------
addw1       | 4         | 5
addw2       | 4         | 5
darp5       | 4         | 5
darp6       | 4         | 5
galp3       | 4         | 5
galp3-b     | 4         | 5
galp3-c     | 4         | 5
galp4       | 4         | 5
gaze14      | 4         | 3
gaze15      | 4         | 3
lemp9       | 6         | 5
lemp10      | 6         | 5
oryp5       | 4         | 5
oryp6       | 6         | 5
oryp7       | 6         | 5

1. Power off system
2. Unplug AC adapter
3. Remove bottom panel
4. Disconnect battery
5. Attach one wire to `SMC_BAT`
6. Attach one wire to `SMD_BAT`
7. Route wires through the Kensington lock slot
    - Secure wires to board with tape
8. Attach female connector and housing to wires
9. Reconnect battery
10. Replace bottom panel

#### Setup

Requirements:
- Target wired for EC debugging
- Adafruit Trinket M0
- USB-C cable

1. Enable I2C debugging in the EC firmware for the target
    - Uncomment `I2C_DEBUGGER` in `src/board/system76/common/common.mk`
    - Build and flash firmware
2. Connect Trinket M0 to host
    - This will create an ACM device at `/dev/ttyACM*`
3. Connect to ACM device from host
```
sudo tio -b 115200 -m INLCRNL /dev/ttyACM0
```
4. Ground target to host
    - Connect USB cable from USB-C port on target to host
5. Connect target to host
    - Connect `SMC_BAT` wire to `SCL` on Trinket M0
    - Connect `SMD_BAT` wire to `SDA` on Trinket M0

EC logs should now print to the console on the host. This can be tested
by removing or inserting the AC adapter to trigger a power event.
